# C++ version

## C++ 14
 - `std::shared_timed_mutex` & `std::shared_lock`
 - allow `auto` in **lambda**
 - `std::make_unique`

## C++ 17
 - 构造函数模板推导
    ``` c++
    pair p(1, 2.2); // c++17 自动推导
    vector v = {1, 2, 3}; // c++17
    ```

 - 结构化绑定
    ``` c++
    std::tuple<int, double> func() {
        return std::tuple(1, 2.2);
    }

    int main() {
        auto[i, d] = func(); //是C++11的tie吗？更高级
        cout << i << endl;
        cout << d << endl;
    }
    ```

 - Init statement for if
    ``` c++
    if (int a = GetValue()); a < 101) {
        cout << a;
    }   
    ```

 - std::shared_mutex

# unique_ptr & shared_ptr & weak_ptr

the smart pointer is introduced to solve:

- manually `new \ delet` raw pointers

## unique_ptr

When using `unique_ptr`, there can be at most one unique_ptr pointing at any one resource.
Therefore, `unique_ptr` is **noncopyable**.
However, unique_ptr can be moved using the new move semantics.

``` c++
unique_ptr<T> myPtr(new T);                  // Okay
unique_ptr<T> myOtherPtr = std::move(myPtr); // Okay, resource now stored in myOtherPtr
```

## shared_ptr

`shared_ptr`, on the other hand, allows for multiple pointers to point at a given resource. When the very last shared_ptr to a resource is destroyed, the resource will be deallocated.

## weak_ptr

`weak_ptr` is a smart pointer that holds a non-owning ("weak") reference to an object that is managed by `shared_ptr`.

- `weak_ptr` can be used to solve **dangling pointer**.
- `weak_ptr` can be used to break **cyclic reference**.

# Generic Lambdas

`Generic Lambdas` is introduced in `C++14` ：
```c++
auto glambda = [] (auto a) { return a; }; 
```
With the lambda `Generic Lambda` and `Parameter Pack`, the callback function can be bind like：
```c++
a.set_callback(
    [&](auto&&... arg){return cb(arg...);
});
```

# Mutex

`Mutex` 互斥锁类是一个同步原语，可以用来保护共享数据不被多个线程同时访问。
在 `C++` 中 `Mutex` 是一种「资源」。通常不直接操作 `Mutex` 实例，而是通过 `unique_lock` 或是「RAII」机制的`lock_guard` 以及 `scoped_lock` 进行管理。

## lock_guard & scoped_lock

A `lock_guard` always holds a lock from its construction to its destruction.
The `scoped_lock` introduced in **c++14** allows to lock multiple `mutex` at one time.

## unique_lock

A `unique_lock` can be created without immediately locking, can unlock at any point in its existence, and can transfer ownership of the lock from one instance to another.

A `condition_variable` needs a unique_lock.

## shared_lock & shard_mutex

introduced in `C=++17`, can be used to implement [`rwlock`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/thread/shared_mutex);

# std::call_once

`std::call_once` is introduced in **C++11**, and should used with `std::once_flag`. 
This function executes the Callable object `f` exactly once, even if called concurrently, from several threads.

{% hint style="info" %}
std::call_once can be used to create **singleton** in multi thread. 
{% endhint %}

Also, for singleton, ``static`` keyword can ensure the safety of init singleton object.
```c++
Foo& getInst()
{
    static Foo inst(...);
    return inst;
}
```
**C++11** guarantees that the object initialization will be made only by one thread, other threads will wait till it complete.
